All right so we have our front page almost done we have our customize or functionality complete now
we want to fix or not fix but implement the widgets down here at the bottom.
So first thing we'll do is open up functions ph P and we're going to have to register or initialize
all of our widget locations.
So let's go down here and say widget locations we're going to create a function here called init widgets
and that's going to take in an ID widget ID and then we're going to say register underscore sidebar
.
Even if it's not a sidebar widget you still use register sidebar and that takes in an array.
Let's
say we want to give it a name.
And this is going to be called content 3 Region 1 the next.
Next we're going to need an ID and that's going to be same thing just in lowercase and no spaces.
And then we can do before widget
and after we do
we can do the same thing with the title.
So we'll say before title
and after title
now what we want to put here before widget is the markup that we have in our page.
So if we go to front page and go down to right here this is this is the way that we're going to get
from here all the way to here.
Okay and this is what we want before the widget So what's cut it out and we're going to go and put that
right here
.
Let's just put these on the same line.
OK.
I'm actually going to just make this wider.
So that's before Widgeon now after we'll take this
and we'll put that after widget
.
Now before title I think it an.
One has an H1 So that's all put here
and we'll save that.
Now all we need to do.
All we need here now is the dynamic sidebar call and just going a pace that in.
OK.
So what it's doing is it's checking to see if there's any widgets in that position.
And if there is then it's going to display it.
And it's also going to include the markup that we put in before and after widget.
So now what we'll do is the content region too.
So we're going to be doing the same thing let's copy this
and this will be content Region 2.
Now for the before and after that that's going to be a little different.
So let's get rid of that.
OK.
So let's see what we got here.
We want to take this
now I'm not going to include this 5 column in seven column.
This isn't going to be part of the widget.
This can go inside the actual widget in the back end but all we want here is this.
So we'll take that and we'll put it right here.
Since it's only a section in a div that's what we need at the end as well.
So this will be a div section.
All right in the H-1 can stay there.
So now all you do is copy that with their right here change this to two.
OK.
And then this content here we're we're going to need to put in the widget in the back end.
But I'm just going to get rid of it for now
.
All right.
So save that now.
We have our widgets but we didn't do the action so let's say add action
and this is going to be widgets to net and then net widgets.
OK so let's go to the back end and see if we can actually see these.
OK.
So if you look down in appearance we carry this widget option and we have content regt. one in content
region 2.
So for our content region 1 I'm going to bring over a text paste in that paragraph and then here we'll
just say clean bootstrap
WordPress theme save it and then for a content region too.
I'm also going to bring over a text and for this let's see we're going to do.
Actually I'm just going to paste in the markup.
All right.
And this is just what we had in the template were the five column with an image we have a 7 column with
the theme features so save that k.
Now if we go to the front end now the stuff here should be coming from the the widget.
So just to test it out say clean word press just say test
load and test.
All right.
So that takes care of those two widgets.
Now we also have the footer widgets we need to take care of so let's go back to our functions P2P file
and get a copy of this and this will be called
for one change this two for one.
Now before and after the widget we're not going to have anything.
And then down here we're just going to have each 4s.
OK.
So copy that.
This will be two and this will be three it's easy enough.
Now back in action let's go in for her Ph p.
And we're just going to replace these for column divs with a 4 column div with the dynamic widget.
So we get that we get that
in this
.
This will be for two and this will be for free.
Save it.
And if we go and reload we get nothing down here because we need to add those widgets so let's do that
.
So now we have for one two and three let's bring a text over the foot or one and I'll just say Helling
I'm just going to paste in some text save it and then for for to also bring over text
say having this here is just going to be an honored list.
Save that and then for her three text
and this will just be a simple form.
Now you can put whatever you want in these widgets you don't have to do what I'm doing.
You don't have to use just a text you could put any of these widgets you could install another widget
and put that in there wherever you like.
All right.
So let's go ahead and reload and there we go.
So these three are now coming from our widget system.
So the home page is now done in the next video we're going to start to move on to the blog index page
and we'll go from there.